docs/README.md, before:

# Docs Index

This is the documentation entrypoint for Memrail.

## Start Here

- Product overview and quickstart: [../README.md](../README.md)
- Contributor onboarding: [../CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md)
- Integration guide (OpenClaw-first): [../INTEGRATION.md](../INTEGRATION.md)

## Runtime Contracts (Authoritative)

Use these as source of truth for current behavior:
- Backend runtime: [../backend/README.md](../backend/README.md)
- Frontend runtime: [../frontend/README.md](../frontend/README.md)
- Agent API surface: [guides/agent-api-surface.md](guides/agent-api-surface.md)
- OpenClaw skill contract: [../openclaw-skill/kms/SKILL.md](../openclaw-skill/kms/SKILL.md)

## Validation and Proof

- Proof pack index: [proof/README.md](proof/README.md)
- Dry-run sample response: [proof/dry-run-response.json](proof/dry-run-response.json)
- Commit sample response: [proof/commit-response.json](proof/commit-response.json)
- Audit events sample: [proof/audit-events-proof.json](proof/audit-events-proof.json)
- Human reject incident sample: [proof/incident-human-reject.md](proof/incident-human-reject.md)

## Reports

- MVP release notes: [reports/mvp-release-notes.md](reports/mvp-release-notes.md)
- MVP e2e checklist: [reports/mvp-e2e-checklist.md](reports/mvp-e2e-checklist.md)
- Historical v0.1.0 snapshot: [reports/v0.1.0-release.md](reports/v0.1.0-release.md)

## Historical Design and Planning

Files in [plans/](plans/) are planning artifacts and may not reflect current runtime behavior.

If there is any conflict between plans and runtime behavior, runtime docs above take precedence.

Commit message:

Add safe-to-write checklist and docs funnel links

docs/README.md, after:

# Docs Index

This is the documentation entrypoint for Memrail.

## Start Here

- Product overview and quickstart: [../README.md](../README.md)
- Safe-to-Write checklist: [guides/safe-to-write-checklist.md](guides/safe-to-write-checklist.md)
- Contributor onboarding: [../CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md)
- Integration guide (OpenClaw-first): [../INTEGRATION.md](../INTEGRATION.md)

## Runtime Contracts (Authoritative)

Use these as source of truth for current behavior:
- Backend runtime: [../backend/README.md](../backend/README.md)
- Frontend runtime: [../frontend/README.md](../frontend/README.md)
- Agent API surface: [guides/agent-api-surface.md](guides/agent-api-surface.md)
- OpenClaw skill contract: [../openclaw-skill/kms/SKILL.md](../openclaw-skill/kms/SKILL.md)

## Validation and Proof

- Proof pack index: [proof/README.md](proof/README.md)
- Dry-run sample response: [proof/dry-run-response.json](proof/dry-run-response.json)
- Commit sample response: [proof/commit-response.json](proof/commit-response.json)
- Audit events sample: [proof/audit-events-proof.json](proof/audit-events-proof.json)
- Human reject incident sample: [proof/incident-human-reject.md](proof/incident-human-reject.md)

## Reports

- MVP release notes: [reports/mvp-release-notes.md](reports/mvp-release-notes.md)
- MVP e2e checklist: [reports/mvp-e2e-checklist.md](reports/mvp-e2e-checklist.md)
- Historical v0.1.0 snapshot: [reports/v0.1.0-release.md](reports/v0.1.0-release.md)

## Historical Design and Planning

Files in [plans/](plans/) are planning artifacts and may not reflect current runtime behavior.

If there is any conflict between plans and runtime behavior, runtime docs above take precedence.
